# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
A1. In the console.rb file

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
A2. In the property.rb file, Property save method

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
A3. lines 13, 22, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
A4. The id for each object of Property is created by the database when they are inserted into the database.  

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
A5. The id is assigned in the property.rb file. It is to assigned to 
the object by setting the @id variable of the instance to equal the id that has been returned by the database.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
A6. This is added so that @id is only set if one exists for that instance.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
A7. The save and update methods are used to insert or update a single row in
the database. Each row is equal to one instance and the instance itself 
should be responsible for saving and updating itself. This is the same for 
deleting a single row. 
The class should be involved with searching and reading the data.
The instances shouldn't be in involved with search for data because 
searching is a higher level function and is used to search the database
at large. The delete_all method is used to delete all the rows from the 
table and should only be done by the class. An instance should not be
able to delete everything.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
A8. db.exec_prepared() returns a pg object which is an array of hashes.
The id is accessed by looking into the start of the pg array and 
accessing the id field of the hash and turning it into an int.
Once this is done, you set the returned id to @id instance variable.  

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
A9. We use prepared statements to protect from sql injections.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
A10. find_by_id method takes the id of the property instance you want to find as an argument.
find_by_address method takes the address of the property instance you want to
find as an argument.

Q11. What are their return values?
A11. These methods return the property object that have been found by 
the sql.